1. Exploring Web Technologies and Python Programming

Objective:
The aim of this assignment is to deepen your understanding and practical skills in web technologies and Python programming. You will explore the functionalities of the World Wide Web, web architectures, and the Python programming language, particularly focusing on setting up environments, API interactions, and data handling.

Problem Statement:
You are tasked with creating a Python application that interfaces with a public API, fetches data, and processes it. This application should provide insights into how different web architectures work and demonstrate your ability to set up a Python environment, make API requests, and handle JSON data.

Task 1: Setting Up a Python Virtual Environment and Installing Packages

    Create a new Python virtual environment in your project directory.
    Activate the virtual environment.
    Install the requests packages.

Expected Outcome:
A successfully created and activated virtual environment with the required packages installed.

Task 2: Fetching Data from the Pokémon API

    Write a Python script to make a GET request to the Pokémon API (https://pokeapi.co/api/v2/pokemon/pikachu).
    Extract and print the name and abilities of the Pokémon.

Expected Outcome:
The script should output the name of the Pokémon (Pikachu) and a list of its abilities.

Task 3: Analyzing and Displaying Data

    Modify the script to fetch data for three different Pokémon.
    Create a function to calculate and return the average weight of these Pokémon.
    Print the names, abilities, and average weight of the three Pokémon.

Code Example:

def fetch_pokemon_data(pokemon_name):
    return #json response

def calculate_average_weight(pokemon_list):
    return #average weight

pokemon_names = ["pikachu", "bulbasaur", "charmander"]

Expected Outcome:
The script should display the names and abilities of the three chosen Pokémon and their average weight. The function should correctly calculate and return the average weight based on the data fetched from the API.